NEXUS Sentinel Recovery is a governed AI release incident workflow built for UiPath AgentHack Track Two, Maestro BPMN.
Enterprise AI releases do not fail in one predictable way.
The requested model can differ from the model actually returned by a provider.
Required evidence can be incomplete.
A privileged remediation can be proposed without accountable approval.
Even after remediation, verification can fail.
A production control plane must detect each condition, stop unsafe execution, and recover without losing the process history.
Our architecture separates authority from advice.
UiPath Automation Cloud is the control and execution plane.
Maestro BPMN owns the process, every gateway, the approval step, remediation, verification, rework, and closure.
UiPath Solutions Management packages and deploys the workflow.
Orchestrator starts the job and exposes a per-node execution trace.
The NEXUS Sentinel Policy Adapter is deliberately narrow.
It never performs remediation.
It receives structured release evidence and returns one of three deterministic verdicts: allow, hold, or deny.
Every response includes stable reason codes, a risk level, a recommended stage, a required human role when applicable, and an audit identifier.
Requests are strict, replay-safe, and retain only an input fingerprint plus the structured outcome in process memory.
Here is the live BPMN process.
An AI Release Incident moves to Evaluate Release Risk and then to the Policy Verdict gateway.
A hold routes through the AI Release Manager Approval user task.
Allow advances directly to bounded remediation.
Deny terminates at Security Escalation.
After remediation, Verify Recovery reaches a second gateway.
Passed verification closes the process.
Failed verification enters Rework Required and loops back to evaluation.
This is a recovery system, not a happy-path diagram.
The public adapter demonstrates the same contract.
Our safety-hold sample requests one model but observes another, omits required evidence, and requests privileged remediation without approval.
The response is hold, high risk, with model echo mismatch, evidence incomplete, and human approval required.
The approved sample returns allow and advances to remediation.
A failed verification returns rework required and re-entry to investigation.
A second verification succeeds and recommends closure.
Replaying the original request returns the same audit identifier, proving idempotent behavior.
The UiPath artifact is not conceptual.
Studio Web validates the model with zero issues.
Solutions Management published package Solution One, version one point zero point zero.
Deployment completed successfully.
A manual Orchestrator job then executed successfully through eight trace nodes: incident, evaluation, verdict, approval, remediation, verification, verification gateway, and verified closure.
We also state the current boundary honestly.
The approval step is a BPMN User Task, but it is not yet bound to an Action App, so it auto-completed in this verified run.
A live Action Center handoff is the next integration step, not a completed claim.
The public repository includes the FastAPI adapter, four sample incidents, the portable BPMN source, UiPath Windows workflow, Apache Two license, build guide, judge matrix, and eighteen passing tests.
Codex, Gemini, Kilo Code, and Cline contributed to implementation, review, and validation.
NEXUS Sentinel shows how UiPath can govern external AI services without surrendering execution authority: deterministic policy evidence, explicit accountability, bounded remediation, and recoverable verification failure in one auditable enterprise workflow.